foreign
[Music]
at the end of the day it doesn't matter
what we do it's about who and what we
become in that process
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
okay welcome to the show everybody today
I'm really excited about our guest
today's guest is Aaron Taylor Aaron
played professional football as an
offensive guard for the Green Bay
Packers and the San Diego Chargers
playing in two Super Bowls and in one of
them they won he is inducted into the
College Football Hall of Fame and is now
a speaker on teamwork and performance
and there's a bunch of other things I
saw on Wikipedia about you there's like
a teamwork award that you founded I'm
also familiar that you work with mankind
project and you do a lot of other work
in self-development and personal
development anything that you like to
add uh one the spelling bee in fourth
grade that's often overlooked but uh one
of the crown jewels of my achievement
catalog
wonderful wonderful awesome we've been
talking a little bit over the past
couple of years just every now and then
we just sort of have a catch up after
after having met and last time we talked
about a week ago when we were kind of
planning this podcast you just had said
a phrase about your journey that I
really loved which was feel your way to
of freedom
and I couldn't even think of a better
way to describe even the work that it is
that we do with this podcast and with
our courses and I'd love to just hear
more about your story and how you
learned this this practice whatever it
is that that you refer to when you say
feel your way to Freedom well I
appreciate that Brett and just for the
record that is trademarked but in all
seriousness uh when I look back on my
own life
everything that has gotten in the way
that has been an inefficient way to
create the outcomes that I want has been
my desire to not feel
so whether I use emotion whether I use
alcohol whether I use money Empower
control all of those things were
utilized by me to try to elicit
something that I wanted which often
involved not feeling so that was a
phrase that kind of came up organically
with a buddy of mine who's a pretty
esteemed coach in his own right and
it's kind of teaching me how to ask the
right questions and be a more in tuned
listener but I think at the core of all
of our Journeys is this
process of liberating ourselves from
ourselves so feeling my way to freedom
to me is always the access the portal to
a brighter future if you will yeah I can
imagine that being very important on the
field if you're overthinking what you're
doing you're just not going to be there
where the ball is going or where the you
know where the players are moving how
did you learn this was this something
you were just born with and you were
like yeah I got this check it out people
I'm feeling my way to Freedom yeah it
was uh basically the only thing left I
tried all the other and it just
didn't work
it's like a very reluctantly started
that Journey Brett but you bring up
football and that's one of the
interesting things like the locker room
is a sacred place but it's not a safe
place so feelings weren't welcome you
didn't want to walk into the locker room
say hey guys I'm my self-esteem is down
today my girlfriend broke up with me and
I'm I'm at the core of my being I don't
feel like I matter I'm enough anybody
want to talk about that like those
things didn't tend to come up so instead
I put on my my helmet my shoulder pads
put my mouthpiece in and tried to knock
the the clock off of somebody and that
was the way that I got to release a lot
of my emotion and I think for me and a
lot of us you work hard you play hard so
alcohol was my ISM of choice and uh I
took part in those Libations uh
liberally and as it turns out I was
allergic every time I drank I broke out
in rashes of very bad judgment so I had
to hang those cleats up about 20 years
ago but again this whole notion of
doing this thing that I felt like I was
born to do but feeling like a fraud the
entire time somebody recently asked me
when I felt most self-confident in I'm
in the College Football Hall of Fame
I've won a Super Bowl I won the
lombardian college as the most
outstanding offensive lineman but
football I never felt confident ever
in my marriage no not really how about
as a father uh no an employee of CBS ah
you know what I feel confident in circle
I feel confident in circle meaning when
I'm in spaces where I feel permission to
be my authentic self
one of the things that I've learned
about me is for me to feel safe there
has to be this kind of emotional game of
you show me yours and I'll show you mine
but I go first and what I'm finding is
when I can share and express who I am
fully that there's nothing to hide and
when there's nothing to hide there's
nothing to hide and that's why I feel
confident and whole in that space and
that's really what's drawn me to this
work that probably brought us here
together on this podcast so I coached a
guy who was the CEO of this startup and
he played basketball for
Princeton I think it was in college he
played college ball and and I've had a
couple I have another guy that I coach
who was like
a track star and what I notice in that
work is that there's this moment that
they where it clicks that they're they
have a body and an emotional
intelligence that they can access the
same way they would access it on the
court or on the field and when they can
access it that way
in business it's like a superpower gets
unlocked for them
and I'm wondering if that Journey
resonates with you at all in your
experience or like was there that moment
of understanding that
there's a way you could access your body
in the circle or on CBS that the same
way you could in the field and it like
allowed you to like increase your
capacity
in that experience yeah that's a great
question Joe uh I'd love to answer that
and say yes
part of my truth is that I never was
able to access my full Emotional Self
while I played and really in my career
which is going into year 15 in case my
bosses are listening I really love
working at CBS Sports because we're in
the middle of a contractor negotiation
right now
um
but I had this incredible moment last
year that may underscore what it is
you're talking about uh I got a call
from my boss indicating that somebody on
our team had gotten coveted and the
question was would I be interested in
calling my first ever NFL game I was
like heck yeah yeah you kidding me so
I was so excited about the opportunity I
ran downstairs and told my wife she
screamed gave me this big hug like this
is the opportunity everybody in our
business wants and here it was in my lap
I was getting my shot
so you know after kind of being a little
misty-eyed and she's like oh my God baby
this is so great I looked at her and
said kiss my fingers gave her the peace
sign and said I'll see you next Sunday
meaning I'm about to go in the bunker
I'm about to study I'm about to watch
film I'm about to call everybody ever
knew I'm about to do the history of both
these teams going back to 1911 and it
was like all of this research and that's
kind of part of my makeup is I'm over
prepared guy which creates anxiety
so this went on for a couple days and my
wife and all of her Infinite Wisdom
looks at me and kind of raises her hand
she's like uh are you uh are you open to
some feedback I was like oh damn every
time she asked me that
a Fastball The Truth is about to be
thrown over the point and then she hit
me with the follow-up of permission to
speak freely I was like oh damn like
this is a biggie and I was like yes and
she said I'm a little worried that
you're so excited about this that you're
gonna squeeze it so tightly that you're
gonna fumble this opportunity she said I
would offer you this every time that
you're nervous or want to do something
or thinking about how you're gonna do X
Y or Z instead of thinking about what it
is you want to do
think about how it is you want to feel
after the event is over
I want you to close your eyes when the
anxiety comes up and imagine putting
your computer in your game board which
is what every announcer uses to call
games what do you look over what's the
look on your partner's face when you
guys high five what's the last thing the
producer says is you take your headset
off and go down underneath the stadium
to the TV trucks what's the you know
who's texting you what are they saying
and as you go to bed and put your head
on the pillow what's the predominant
feeling is it pride is it relief is it
gratitude like play it all the way out
fellas you want to talk about a
superpower that was the best game I've
ever called on the biggest stage in my
biggest moment I'm in the college dang
Football Hall of Fame I've been on TV
for 14 years but that was the only time
I never had performance anxiety and
wasn't worried about what I was going to
do because I shifted my focus from what
I feared to what I wanted to feel so
when we talk about feeling your way to
Freedom that's another way that it can
look and it led not only to the best
game I've ever called it's the best
season I've ever had in television the
amazing thing is even in your wife's
description of it she's like don't
squeeze it too tightly like she
described it to you in physical terms
she literally was just like you might
fumble it's like the whole thing was
like you could feel it in your like when
you were describing your wife's words to
me I'm like oh I can feel that in my
body she is she was talking to your body
it's pretty cool yeah she's a pretty
accomplished athlete in her own right at
two-time Olympian and beach volleyball
so I uh I am that smart at least I'm not
smart enough that I can choose well
that's the best spectator sport ever I
just want to throw that amen
um so she understands what being a good
teammate's like she understands what
pressures feels like being on the
Olympic stage and growing up in
communist Bulgaria and having that be
the only Avenue the only way out is
through Sports and all the pressure that
she felt so I really appreciated that
and and talk about it a lot because it
really was a defining moment in my life
and God dang I wish I had known that at
18.
so one of the phrases that somebody
shared with me recently that just blew
me away because it hit me right between
the eyes was fear is a misuse of the
imagination
so the flip side of that is what I did I
focused on how I wanted to feel and the
positive outcome into my brain it didn't
know the difference then all of a sudden
it starts dropping dopamine and oxytocin
and all these feel-good chemicals and my
experience was different so how that
translated on game day when it mattered
was I wasn't worried about what the
words I was going to say during the open
or how I was going to telestrate or who
the people I wanted to put my
telestrator tool that I think were going
to be there that has this cool effect
that I like I didn't get caught up in
all that I was present and to me
presence is the portal to a a better
outcome and reality and that's what
focusing on my feelings afterward
allowed me to do in the moment because
there was no downside as far as I was
aware it sounds like what was happening
there is that your
your fear was like transmuting into
excitement you weren't focusing on the
things you were afraid of in a way that
was stuck the fears might be there but
you continued to intend towards what you
wanted and I think that there's like
there's a lot of freedom that happens
when you reach this impartiality of
being able to be an acceptance of all
outcomes and continuing to intend in the
direction that you want
and with you know with that maximum
freedom in both of those directions then
you have
you have full freedom to be
authentically yourself and you know call
the shots exactly as they're coming to
mind you know as you did one of my best
friends from my NFL days this guy Roman
Fort and he was my Center here in San
Diego with the Chargers and he was a
Christian and a born-again Christian but
he was a very approachable Christian
right it wasn't thrown in your face it
was a faith of Attraction rather than
promotion you know he had little baby
curses uh that he would throw in there
but he's a super funny Storyteller and
we were room dogs which meant on the
road we would room together the night
before the game everybody would pair up
and since we played next to each other
we could talk strategy but you know as
you would expect it often got a little
deeper at times and
um let's just say that I wasn't very
Christian like at 25 26 27 years old but
I was Christian curious and I was Faith
curious because Roman had something that
resonated with me there was an
underlying confidence and joy
I think that I saw on him that I didn't
necessarily feel myself so I asked him
about it and how he could have such
faith and he said man A.T he's like
imagine playing a football game
that you know you're going to win no
matter what but the score at the end of
the first half is 58 to nothing and
you're losing
he said but you know for a fact that at
the end of the game you somehow win he
said what's your demeanor going to be
like at halftime are you throwing your
helmet are you super stolen are you
excited you thinking holy how are
we gonna pull this off like we win this
deal like oh my God I can't wait to see
how this thing plays itself out
he said that's what my faith is he said
for me I know I win the game at the end
of the day so I don't ever care what the
score is this reminds me of the thing
I've heard Joe say before which is when
someone's stuck in a question or stuck
in like a binary what do I do this or
that uh question I've heard Joe ask is
what would you do if you knew you'd be
happy either way from that place how do
you actually approach your problems if
you if you don't make them responsible
for your happiness if you don't make the
outcome responsible for
for your joy yeah it's challenging I
have a question for you so I don't know
where you are in the still Christian
curious or that whole thing but how does
faith register with you now like so the
deeper part of that question for me is
that there's a lot of folks out there
who believe that faith is something for
the religious
and in my experience is that you can
have a deep faith without any of the
without being religious and so I'm
wondering how Faith interacts with your
system now what does that mean to you
today and
and how is it uh grown since that time
hearing that story in the hotel room
yeah well I'll answer that question with
another story uh that I heard in the
rooms of recovery about uh a guy goes to
the circus and he looks up and he sees
the guy on the high wire and he sees
them up there and he's walking across
and he's got the big stick uh and he
makes it across he believes that he's
going to be able to make it because this
is a traveling circus and if it was
really that dangerous they probably
wouldn't let them do it because they'd
have to keep going through these guys so
but then the guy comes out and gives a
wheelbarrow and he's got you know like
sacks of sand and he's pushing this
thing across and it's a little bit more
hairy but the guy still believes in the
audience that this high wire Walker is
going to be able to make it from one end
to the other
he said Faith though is getting out of
the stands climbing up the ladder and
getting inside the wheelbarrow and
that's a whole lot easier to talk about
than it is to do
so I want to thank my faith is strong
but when push comes to shove buddy I
want to sit in them stands I want a big
ass net and I try to create certainty so
that's literally at the core of what my
dance is uh through life is to figure
out to take those leaps of faith and
when I look back on everything that's
been good in my life it's when I was
willing to go where I was afraid or
unwilling prior to and that's where the
gold in our lives lies that's kind of
one of my anchor statements is the gold
in our lives lies just beyond what we're
afraid or unwilling to go it's those
leap of face and when I've done that
poof they disappear so your question of
what would you do if you were happy and
it worked out either way removes that
element of fear what would you do if you
weren't afraid I'd probably do this good
then go do that
and we kind of talk ourselves out of
this you know the richness of life's
possibilities when we let fear into the
picture but that's the game and it's the
game I believe for all of us in our own
ways with our own actors our own sets
our own time periods our own wardrobes
it all looks different but it's all the
same deal so that leads me to a second
question there are moments where I have
done that I've gotten in the wheelbarrow
and then fallen and you know only to
find out that the destruction that
happens is the destruction of a part of
myself that can be destroyed leaving me
with the part of myself that can't be
destroyed meaning yeah maybe it hurts
maybe it sucks maybe it sucks for a good
long while but at the end of the day
I'm refined I'm purified it's not the
right word but refined it's like there's
there's a part of me that wasn't real
that's lost I'm wondering if you have a
story like that where you had the faith
the idea is going to go one way it went
disastrously wrong but at the end of the
day you are better for it like the the
faith still
was a good bet even though there was a
bump or two on the way yeah man uh that
false self like I've been going through
this phase where I've uh my the idea of
myself like what's that phrase a
narcissists don't fall in love with
themselves they fall in love with the
idea of themselves like
we love that one
that's good so the idea of myself has
been meeting my actual self on a
profound level over the last couple
weeks and it's not going so well it's
like a blind date from hell in certain
respects I think part of my origin story
right is parents divorced at two I get
sent back to Indiana to live with my
father and his family while they're an
older adult male family member molest me
there's some physical abuse that takes
place I come back to California my dad's
supposed to show up one day and doesn't
so that's kind of the wounding that
happened to me early on then we moved
every two years so I was always a new
kid in school just for shits and giggles
I'm biracial so never felt white enough
but never felt black enough always felt
too black always felt too white and
never really knew where I fit in but Dad
was the critical piece for me and I used
to fantasize about whether or not if he
was around he could teach me to fight
and to make bird houses and to use power
tools and do all the dad stuff and fish
so I have this picture of him working on
a door that got sent at some point where
I was you know seven or eight and I
think that's where a lot of that stuff
comes from so after that day it at eight
when I sat on the couch from 8 A.M to
midnight waiting for him to come my mom
knew right away he wasn't coming but I
refused to move that's part of when my
light went out right so through the
rational mind of an eight-year-old oh I
must not be good enough to love I must
not matter I must not be good enough to
show up on time for boom and went to
sleep so that's a story I've been trying
to unwind well fast forward many many
years and probably a story that could be
a podcast in and of itself I got
reconnected with my father and
the moment that I'll never forget is him
sitting with his new wife on his couch
in tears in my living room
me sitting on the other couch across
from him next to my wife with me in
tears and both of us crying about the
fact about how hard it was to grow up
without a healthy father
that's how we connected we resonated
with our shared experience in that
moment and what I learned very shortly
thereafter is how freaking lucky I was
that he wasn't around he was admittedly
in his own words a disaster at that time
when I wanted him to be there and my
life would be so different if just my
dad would be there and it felt like I
fell out of the wheelbarrow and part of
me died
but what I learned in that moment Joe
was that
thank God God didn't give me what I
wanted because I would have been selling
myself short that God doesn't do things
to us he does them for us he was
actually protecting me it's like the old
Footprints over people's toilets in
their bathroom right that old poem about
when the adversity hits there's only one
footprint how could you abandon me and
you know obviously Jesus or God's saying
well that was what I carried you those
were my footprints
that's what my relationship with faith
is is that when I get what I want I'm
selling myself short it's been the
adversity it's been The Strife it's been
the challenge it's been the loss where
I've grown the most and on the other
side of that is this almost infinite
amount of possibility and that's why I'm
drawn to the things that I'm afraid to
do because I kind of know that behind
there there's some riches that are just
waiting to be Unearthed and then my kids
don't brush their teeth and then I get
all pissed off and I throw that out
the window
back in my day I didn't have a father to
tell me to brush my teeth
oh well so that's man so check this out
all right let's bring this full circle
because that's a really good point now I
know you're probably being ingest there
Brett but like there's been part of me
I'm like
they're really accomplished water polo
players they're 13 and 12 they're each
individually good they're yin and yang
one's really good offensively one's
really good defensively and they're kind
of balancing out their their skill sets
they've got an incredible coach the
parents are great it's like a case study
in Youth Sports and it crushes me that
they don't listen to all the TED talks
on success and resilience and teamwork
and the win one for the Gipper speeches
that I try to fire hose them with like I
didn't have a dad and you guys don't let
I get paid to talk and you guys don't
want to listen to me and the reality is
like
you don't know what is going to work and
what's going to be there and and I have
to laugh at myself in those moments
because it's like what are you doing
dude like they are perfect my mom did
she didn't play hopscotch let alone play
sports and I got exactly what I needed
at the right time in the right way how
about just listening accepting and
admiring and cheering your kids on and
stop trying to be what you wished you
had when you were freaking 13. yeah
Bravo I'll let you know how that goes
yeah
six months 16 years maybe
work in progress how did you end up
going from this from the life that you
started with with not having your father
having the abuse having had that moment
where you just you learned you believed
you took on this belief that you just
weren't worthy and then find yourself
winning Super Bowls and feeling your way
to Freedom what was what was that path
between then and now that opened you up
to this I'd say equal parts Serendipity
uh divine intervention and hard work
so I got kicked out of the house at 14
because I was a dnf student mom who was
a pediatric ICU nurse at Children's
Hospital in Oakland hold on a second
what what years what years was your mama
nurse at
home from
72 to probably
83 or four my mom worked at Children's
Hospital Oakland in 82 to 86 or seven oh
we have to do a little research put them
in the show notes whether there was
crossover or not yeah man I'd spent a
lot of afternoons there well it was a
horrible neighborhood back then I
remember that yeah she was uh my mom ran
dietitian like did the dietetics part of
the hospital so anyway sorry he said
Oakland small world getting smaller no
that that's a heck of a clinky dink
there yeah so she was out of answers
kicked me out and I spent a week
sleeping on my buddy's floor uh using
his socks and underwear as a pillow and
was like you know what this probably
isn't a good long-term strategy so
unbeknownst to me my mom was talking to
his mom every day and getting updates
and you know do you want to come back
home and have a chat and of course I
said yes and
she basically walked me back from what
it is I wanted to do and I said oh I
want to play pro football it's like oh
well how do you do that it's like oh
he's just playing college and get
drafted Oh just get drafted to say
everybody get drafted no just kind of
the better guys well when I was in
college you had to have good grades you
have to have good grades to play
football I was like yeah you have to
have a 2.0 at least okay I got College
how do you get there well you gotta play
high school football and they just give
you a scholarship oh they just give you
scholarships so she was walking me all
the way back and you know the punch line
was so every time you smoke weed or cut
school or you know fail a class what
you're really saying is you don't want
to be a pro football player now I don't
even really know if I wanted to be a pro
football player I just kind of blurted
it out but what I did get in that moment
was the connection between my choices
actions and consequences that who and
what I wanted to become was being
directly impacted by my actions in the
moment and I had never really kind of
pieced that together
and once I named that out loud that's
kind of when the invisible door started
open and the Divinity and the
Serendipity came in there was a show on
that night that talked about the school
De La Salle and the East Bay that had
this 44-game win streak and the coach
was talking about how his players aren't
it they're part of it and there's this
higher standard and I was like Mom
that's the sort of place that I'd like
to go well within a course of two weeks
somebody comes into work they've got a
house to rent right down the street from
the school she gets a job offer that
pays her almost twice as much money so
she's able to leave Children's Hospital
in that moment and go move over to
Concord and kind of the rest was history
and there's some really good moments in
there where I kind of came up against
that fear and kind of came to the why in
the road but it was that over and over
and over and the harder I worked the
better I got everybody worked hard but
they got an inch better and I got a foot
better and that was the god-given
genetics that I had which is really odd
because neither of my parents had any
any sort of athleticism whatsoever so
that was kind of the the story and that
led to full scholarship in Notre Dame
and getting drafted in the first round
in Green Bay and
I think for me growing up without a dad
what my driver was was good job good
play good read good recovery good boy
these older adult male role models as my
coaches started to serve unbeknownst to
them and to me the role of my father
they gave me the wisdom the Pat's on the
butt the kicks in the ass sometimes both
at the same time and I was drawn to that
but I was also a people pleaser and a
coach pleaser
so that drove me to work hard and to
grind so I think the combination of
serendipity Divinity and hard work
um led to a pretty dang good football
career it's interesting something that
just clicked for me is that you were
saying earlier on you know did you have
that full sense of confidence and fall
did you have that full sense of good CVS
or with your marriage and it seems like
what you just said really illuminates
that in the fact that probably in
circles the only time that it's not
about somebody else's pat on the butt
it's not about somebody else's telling
you you did a good job right and to have
any kind of confidence which also to me
relates to what you're saying about your
kids
which is
for me the whole thing about being a
parent of teenagers is to have them
learn to hear their own voice of
good job like allow them to listen to
themselves in their truth and have that
move them instead of my good job or my
bad job or whatever it is that I want to
criticize or not criticize
that's the thing that you you have in
the circle is that it's just
your truth that you're dealing with and
you're not looking for anybody's
approval in those rooms yeah that's I
appreciate that Joe
um and just last night like my kids are
13 and 12 and still want me to come in
and read and just sit and talk and and
we do that and I'll do that they'll be
33 and I'll do it they keep asking me I
don't give a thing that's right but I
started another Ted talk last night and
it was about you know details being the
difference and I'm trying to teach you
the skills to be disciplined about the
things that don't matter to you so that
when it comes to the things that do it
becomes automatic I know you don't care
about making your bed and brushing your
teeth but you do care about water polo
you do care about your friends and try
to make those connections and then I
just stopped because he gave me kind of
the uh-huh yeah okay and that's his like
all right Dad time out I've had enough
and I just stopped and I was like
being a dad's hard buddy I was like I I
really struggle with knowing how much to
like give you and to try to motivate you
and to just love on you for the amazing
kid that you are no matter what you do
like I've written my sports story I
could give a if you do anything
successful in sports and I mean that
wholeheartedly but I know it's important
to you so I'm wanting to give you all
these things and
that's a very gray area for me and I
don't think I walk it real well
sometimes and I just I wanted to
acknowledge that out loud and say I
you can tell me what it is you need
because what's more important to me is
that you have what you need and I
support you in the way that serves you
not me
okay okay
even when we win we lose it's father oh
my God even when we lose we win I guess
too but
um it's a really good point that story
is not over I guarantee you that story
is not over there will be a moment where
that comes back and you will you will
find out that he was listening and it
hit him
and all he could say was okay but yeah
if we ever have another podcast I'll
have to follow up on so what happened
there you'll have him on and he'll give
you the real skinny amount
so my moment of transformation
transformation let me tell you about who
my dad really is
I mean it's interesting like a lot of
what tends to drive us to Excellence is
often often that like you describe
people pleasing and
wanting to be something because that's
what's going to get us love or
affirmation from the outside and then on
our journey we find that we never
actually needed the outside affirmation
was actually just our own that we needed
and all that and then you know you have
kids and you're like okay so what worked
for me and then you've got to go back
and correct for like well what worked
for me was something that actually while
it drove me also became a trap that I
put myself in that I needed to find find
Freedom from so it's like what do I
actually do now for my kids
because what worked for me isn't
necessarily the thing that I want to you
know bring them through as well yeah and
these poor dudes are growing up in a
world that we didn't grow up in man it's
the amount of pressure in the freaking
meat grinder the last three years it's
ongoing and social media and just like
we we live in a broadcast world
everything is coming at us very little
in between us right the interpersonal
communication like learning to talk with
our tongues and our mouths instead of
our thumbs like this is just something
this generation just doesn't have much
experience with and I gotta a brutal
look into that with one of my sons who
had gotten in trouble a little bit at
school and he was going to miss practice
and I made him pick the phone up to call
his coach to tell him that he wasn't
going to be at practice and why and you
know what the expected consequence was
going to be
and he started to text the answers you
picked the phone up and you call him and
you tell him what it is you did well
what do I say
you tell him what you just told me but
like what words I'm like what do you
mean what words like do you need a
script
and he slowly nodded his head yeah
and that was the moment and I see you
not in your head Joe that was the moment
where I was like he does not know how to
use the phone and call and talk to
somebody and certainly about hard things
I don't know if I would have known how
to do that at 12 or 13 but I had to call
Abdul's parents to see if Abdul was
there so he could spend the night and we
could have fun in the hot you know hi
misses like that those we had to do that
but these kids aren't growing up with
that and I was like oh
so now I've got like I'm worried about
the wrong stuff I got to work on his
communication skills and like all these
basic things that you know you sometimes
Overlook with my you know National Team
Water Polo playing Sun that's all A's
and B's and I'm worried about this stuff
over here and there's these basic
necessities that these children need
that I is our job and responsibility to
provide
um because the world they're growing up
in is not easy it's very different from
the one that we were in and you know I
don't know how we're doing I don't know
how you ever know if if what you're
doing but you do the best you can but I
do honor their walk and the difficulty
of of the environment they're coming in
because stuff's coming at them fast
damn silence I love it I mean I'm I'm
here trying to relate I don't have any
kids I'm like yeah I'm still trying to
raise myself
or else just keeps changing every minute
I can't even imagine trying to you know
show you know unfilter this world for
for a child right now
but I see people do it my eldest
um was really found herself naturally
gravitating towards meditation when she
was younger and so she asked if she
could do a silent retreat with me and so
I said
I said yes and but then nobody would
take a nine-year-old for a silent
meditation in this country but we found
a place and we did like this three-day
thing and
and she was so happy at the end of it
and it was just like it was so her scene
and
about like three months later
I was like hey so what do you think
about meditation like what's going on
she goes I really like it but
I can't
I can't do that again for a while
and I was like oh really what why not
she's like it makes me too different
than my peers
I can't relate to them and I need to be
able to relate to them to manage you
know she didn't say it like that but you
know that was the deal and recently
she's been interested in going and and
going back into that world again it was
just this interesting thing of like
teenagers and and all of us on some
level
are negotiating
our own development
and what the world you know the the
environment that we're given and so it's
more important to your son to learn how
to text you know and and be able to like
get that skill and to make the phone
call at this part of his life so it's
it's a really fascinating it's a
fascinating thing parenting oh man it's
uh it's been the toughest and most
rewarding job I've ever done like
playing football was a layup compared to
this I'll tell you that good Lord okay
so I got to tell you this story about so
at the end of the silent Retreat I
looked at my daughter I'm like what was
your favorite thing about it she goes I
think it was the style um
it was the fact that you couldn't tell
me what to do for three and a half days
[Laughter]
install
oh I was like yeah fair
fair enough and I'll say this Joe that
to me is a little peek into the job that
you are doing as a parent because she
would felt empowered and had the
capacity to share her truth about what
she felt with this big meaningful person
in her life and if she could do that
with you she'll be able to do that with
boyfriends and bosses and her community
that's uh is is again sometimes when we
lose we win as fathers
we laughed yeah yeah yeah absolutely
thank you for seeing that I want to flip
this a little bit uh the art of
accomplishment somebody asked me once or
recently about my definition for success
and I didn't really know if I had one so
my question to both of you is what's the
relationship and the context from which
this podcast or row between
accomplishment and success a thing that
comes up for me is just if you
if you live your life as art and not as
something that's something to get right
or wrong and high pressure then what do
you end up accomplishing and then
accomplishment being like what is
actually authentic for you what is what
is most enjoyable for you and what is
most truly what you do in this world and
how do you express
and I see that as being somewhat
different from a lot of framings of
success or accomplishment so I kind of
like having that Twist on it for me
success is
a criteria of accomplishment meaning
that
if we're going to accomplish something
that's actually something that we at the
end of the day we're like end of the of
our life end of the day we're like hey
that feels good like I'm proud of that
thing it's not going to be
dollars in the bank account or number of
cars or anything like that though that
might be part of it it could be what
it's going to be is something that is
something that was deeply aligned with
you and it was how you did it as much as
what you did
and so success isn't the end well I
think a lot of people think that success
is the end goal to me success is just
something that has to be
met to get to a place of accomplishment
and the how is more important than the
what yeah it's interesting so starting
first with with you Brett and bringing
art into it there's a quote somebody
shared once that I love that I'm
wondering if it applies here I feel like
it does but there's there's no good or
bad art there's art you like and art you
don't like right it's like arts in the
eye the beholder like kind of that whole
vein of thinking and with respect to to
what you shared Joe I I created a
website called mental health best
practices and it was just it's an
agnostic aggregation of all these things
that I've used that have helped me on my
own Journey around my special shortest
special and uh there's a quote on there
that I'm gonna butcher my own quote but
at the end of the day it doesn't matter
what we do it's about who and what we
become in that process success yeah so
as I'm in the College Football Hall of
Fame and have a Super Bowl ring and you
know a father and an employee and have
all these accolades on Wikipedia don't
forget the spelling bee minus the fourth
grade spelling bee thank you uh I'll
make that edit on Wikipedia for you none
of that stuff matters there's we haven't
talked a story about what that moment
was like when you got that and like I'm
49 so I'm probably on the back nine or
at least around second base right so the
first part of my life was about being
and doing and having and becoming and
getting and amassing and is around
second base or approach The Tee Box if
you will on the back nine my life is
really becoming about what it is I can
allow
like and it that assumption is that
everything I need for these last nine
holes is already there the key is for me
to get out of the way I don't have to
make it I just have to allow it to get
out of the way and allow what's already
there to come up and that's a a very
different but very important Distinction
on on how I'm approaching life now uh at
this age that was very different from an
era that was contrary but also led to a
lot of accomplishment so that's why I'm
kind of interested in this Framing and
and how we think about it I'm curious
about something in this so if I my guess
is if I was to meet your sons
they're already far more
towards the way you're looking at life
on the back nine then you were even like
six seven years ago
you know what I'm saying I'm saying like
to some degree your kids are already
allowing it to come to them
they're and they're doing the work but
their attitude their perspective isn't
like I have to prove myself as much as
it is
oh yeah I'm letting this come to me this
is this is me being me and this is what
happens when I'm me
and so that's my question is how much of
how much of that lesson because you
learned it your kids inherit some uh I
guess we could probably measure it by
the amount of flicker when their eyes
roll in the back of their head when I
talk to them
oh so they've certainly heard it well
I've certainly modeled how to make an
amends uh perfectly like they've got
that down they're pretty driven right
now which is interesting and I think
part of my is that not true for you
though because I don't see an un
ambitious undriven man no when I heard
your approach on the back nine I didn't
hear that you lost your ambition it's
diff it's you know you got to let go to
take control you gotta you know hit your
knees to finally stand up it's like this
oxymoronical
piece that we're we're talking about
um that's my question I'm gonna push
here just a little bit yeah isn't that
what your kids already kind of get man
I'm sure hoping so buddy like that's the
goal and I think that's why I'm pushing
so hard and trying to insert my
viewpoint so that they don't quote in
air quotes make the same mistakes that I
made and can advance the story from a
much earlier age and I've got a value
their walk right never rob a man of his
pain or his gold because both serve him
equally well like at 14 years old my mom
wasn't like that's my boy he's on his
way he's on his way dnf student look at
him look at him
but I was I was on my way and that was a
critical and necessary part so again
maybe my 13 and 12 year old you know who
are really accomplished in what it is
they do and both very good students
maybe I don't have to worry about them
quite as much as my mom may be worried
about me and just do the best I can
trust the process and like let them find
their own way down the mountain I love
to snowboard and I love to vomit my wife
goes really slow I used to get
frustrated whether we figured out that
hey let's ride up together I'm a vomit
I'ma bomb it again and I'm gonna meet
you and then we're gonna ride up
together and like let her take her own
way pick her own line down the mountain
she doesn't don't try to make her do
what I want to do because that's the way
I do it respect her journey yeah I'll
share this story with you guys
one of the
defining moments in my life was at 15.
moved to Concord
entered De La Salle mom switched jobs
she quit her job of 20 years
found a new house like a ton of change
and she was really really supportive in
this process that started to unfold that
involved me playing football at De La
Salle High School that had that long win
streak wait did you play at the Oakland
Coliseum oh yeah for the finals NCS yup
against Granada so Granada was my high
school no way thanks guys
the amazing thing is they all went in
there like yeah and we're gonna lose
you guys are the best back then oh man
we certainly were I caught it right
so all of that
was really close to never becoming
because I had worked out in the summer
and we had gotten ready and it was day
one of full pads in practice
so I wake up in the morning eat
breakfast my mom drops me off I get
dropped off by somebody else's parents
at the end of the day my mom walked into
the house hey honey how'd it go don't
say a word slam the door into my room
so so she waited probably 10 minutes and
I'm sobbing sobbing sobbing sobbing and
she walks in she goes what happened I'll
say God everything happened nothing
happened like I couldn't do anything
right and the play was going left I was
going right and the play was going right
I went left put my pads and they just
kept yelling at me and tell me I
couldn't do it you had to break the bad
habits and we don't do things like this
here and I just like Mama's I'm so sorry
we moved here I can't do this I can't do
this and she just let me go on and on
and I was so broken and so defeated and
so scared
and she said to me you know after I got
done I looked up at her she goes you got
to figure out if what you want is worth
the price that you may have to pay to
get it
and you said it doesn't matter to me
whether or not you play football or not
she said but tomorrow morning I'll have
breakfast ready for you and if you get
up I'll know the decision you made and
if you sleep in I also know the decision
that you made but either way I won't say
a word to you and she shut the door
boy
there I was sitting on the edge of the
bed sobbing in tears with this internal
angst of what was I going to do how
could I go back there's no way I could
endure what I had just endured the
previous day again
but somehow some way I got up and I went
back to practice and I got my ass chewed
again but I made a block or two and I
went back the next day got my ass chewed
again but I made a couple more blocks
and I made a couple more blocks and a
couple more and as it turned out I was
pretty damn good at football I just
didn't know it yet and I think about
that moment in everything every time I
tell this story I get emotional because
everything that came after that
was so close to never becoming
and I don't know what it was in me that
got me up that next morning but that
resilience that gift that my higher
power has given me somehow some way that
no matter what just find a way to show
up to get back up go to the Huddle get
the play Break It walk to the line of
scrimmage put your hand in the dirt and
give it your all
that's been something that's been given
to me it's one of my superpowers and
that was a time that it was tested and I
think about Notre Dame and the
friendships there and the surrogate mom
that I met there
my father uh Green Bay the Super Bowl
the Financial Freedom that's allowed me
to do what I do for a living now to
enjoy more freedom talking about sports
on television meeting my wife my
children all of that poof disappears
and that's why I firmly believe that the
gold in our life lies just beyond what
we're afraid unwilling to go and that
was the most impactful and meaningful
way that I ever experienced that and
everything that's happened since has
been an incredible incredible gift
foreign
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]